# Bracket Bot

[Webpage](https://bracket.bot/)

----

# Quickstart for setting up the Raspberry Pi and Building and Running Nodes

Skip to step 5 if you have already setup ssh, ssh keys on the Pi and cloned the repos

Skip to step 7 if you have already setup the platform on the Pi and calibrated the motors

In your vscode or cursor editor: Install the vscode remote ssh connect extension: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-ssh.

1. Setup ssh on the Pi
    ```bash
    sudo apt-get install -qy ssh git
    sudo systemctl enable ssh
    sudo systemctl start ssh
    # Set the hostname by editing the value in /etc/hostname
    sudo vi /etc/hostname
    # update the /etc/hosts file to reflect the new hostname
    sudo vi /etc/hosts
    # reboot for changes to take effect
    sudo reboot
    ```
2. SSH to the Pi with vscode remote ssh connect extension: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-ssh.
3. Setup ssh keys for github on the Pi if you haven't already (https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/adding-a-new-ssh-key-to-your-github-account)
    ```bash
    ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "your_email@example.com"
    # Adding the key to the ssh-agent
    eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"
    ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
    # Copy the key to your clipboard and add it to your github account under settings -> SSH and GPG keys
    cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub
    ```
4. Clone our repo on the Pi (you will have to setup ssh keys for github on the Pi)
    ```bash
    git clone git@github.com:BracketBotCapstone/quickstart.git
    ```
5. Run this script to setup the platform, [setup_os.sh](scripts/setup_os.sh). Reboot the pi after you do this. Note that the script will ask if you want to install the realsense libraries, you will need to do this to launch all the nodes.
    ```bash
    ./scripts/setup_os.sh
    ```
6. Run this script to setup the odrives, [motor_controller_setup.sh](scripts/motor_controller_setup.sh).
    ```bash
    ./scripts/motor_controller_setup.sh
    ```
7. Open the repo on the Pi in the vscode ssh session
8. Run the following to build the project, the config is the robot config you want to use from the [configs](configs) directory and message config you want to use from the [messages](messages) directory
    ```bash
    CONFIG=bot_quickstart CONFIG_MSGS=bot_quickstart_msgs make
    ```
8. Then you can just launch nodes in this devcontainer with the following command
    ```bash
    python3 launcher/start_all_nodes.py
    ```

> **Note:** Logs will be written to the logs folder in the directory where you launch the nodes from. Use the DataLogger class in the [data_logger.py](utils/data_logger.py) file to log data to a file.

> **Note:** Some of the commands for building and launching nodes are also configured as tasks that can be run in the vscode tasks section or by doing a ctrl+shift+p, selecting `Tasks: Run Task` and then selecting the name of the task you want to run

## Adding Python Dependencies or packages for use anywhere within the project
To add new Python requirements or packages, update the [setup.py](setup.py) file in the root directory. This file manages all Python dependencies that will be installed for the project.
After adding any new packages to the setup.py file, you will need to run the ``make install`` command to install the new packages.

## Configuring Parameters for Nodes
Parameters for nodes are specified in the [configs](configs) directory. You can create a new config for your robot by copying an existing config and modifying the values to match your robot.

Each hardware configuration has a config/(CONFIG_NAME).toml file to fully describe all static parameters shared between python and c. These are constants and are exported via CONFIG=<CONFIG_NAME> make setup or CONFIG=<CONFIG_NAME> make to be easily available via

* python: ```import utils.constants as CFG```

These parameters are loaded at compile time for python nodes as a [constants.py](utils/constants.py) file which is autogenerated by the [parse_toml_config.py](config/parse_toml_config.py) script. Note these files are not tracked by git and are generated when you run make setup or make.

## Specifying Message Types for Nodes
Message types are specified in the [messages](messages) directory. You can create a new message config for your robot by copying an existing config and modifying the values to match your robot.

Each message config has a config/(CONFIG_NAME)_msgs.toml file to fully describe all message types used in the robot.
The topic names are also specified in this file.

These are then parsed into python message classes which are autogenerated by the [generate_mqtt_messages.py](config/generate_mqtt_messages.py) script.

Python message types are autogenerated into the [messages](utils/messages) directory, and then imported into python nodes for sending and receiving messages with the mqttpublisher and mqttsubscriber classes in the [mqtt_utils.py](utils/mqtt_utils.py) file.

See existing nodes for examples of how to use message types for sending and receiving messages.

## Creating a New Python Node
To add a new Python node:
1. Create a new directory in the [nodes](nodes) folder.
2. Add a `main.py` file in this new directory.
3. Implement your node logic in `main.py`.
4. Specify the new node in the launcher script in the [launcher/start_all_nodes.py](launcher/start_all_nodes.py) file to integrate it into the system.

## Viewing Rerun Data Locally
To view data sent to rerun from the [rerun-viewer](nodes/rerun_viewer/main.py) node on your local machine:
1. Follow the detailed instructions provided in the [nodes/rerun_viewer/README.md](nodes/rerun_viewer/README.md) file.
2. This guide will walk you through setting up and connecting to the rerun viewer for real-time data visualization.
3. To add additional data to be sent to rerun, you can subscribe to any topic and handle the input in the [rerun_viewer/main.py](nodes/rerun_viewer/main.py) node code.
